# 1.2 - Particles

Particles serve as a way to identify a word's function within a sentence. Correct usage of particles is imperative, as using the wrong particle in the wrong place can drastically alter the meaning of a sentence.

### 「は」- The Topic Particle

The topic particle in Japanese identifies the topic of conversation. While a sentence like「学生だ。」is completely valid in Japanese, it doesn't tell us much without context of *who* is a student. This is the main purpose of the particle は, pronounced like わ. One way of interpreting は is by translating「～は」as "as for ～..."

Example 1:
1. 私は学生だ。- I am a student.　(As for me, I am a student)
2. アリスは友達だ。- Alice is a friend. (As for Alice, she is a friend)

### 「も」- The Inclusive Topic Particle

「も」has a very similar meaning to「は」but with the additional sense of being "in addition to" what is being discussed. As a result, it can often be translated as "also". 

Example 1:
1. 私は学生だ。- I am a student.
2. アリスも学生だ。- Alice is also a student.

Note that both subjects (私 and アリス, in this case), must be in agreement. It wouldn't make sense to say "I am a student, and Tom is also not a student." In that case, you would use は for Tom.

Example 2:
1. 私は大人だ。- I am an adult.
2. アリスも大人だ。- Alice is also an adult.
3. でもトムは大人ではない。- But Tom is not an adult.

If two negatives agree,「も」can still be used.

Example 3:
1. 私は先生だ。- I am a teacher.
2. アリスは先生ではない。- Alice is not a teacher.
3. トムも先生ではない。- Tom is also not a teacher.

### 「が」- The Identifier Particle

The topic can be declared using 「は」and「も」. However, these particles cannot be used to *identify* the topic, or call it into question. For that, the identifier particle「が」is used. This will often be called the subject particle, but seeing as the Japanese grammatical concept of a subject is vastly different from the English subject, calling it the identifier particle is much more intuitive and accurate.

Example 1:
1. だれは学生？ is incorrect, as は is declaring the topic to be the question word「だれ」, meaning "who". This sentence would be translated as "Is who the student?" which is ungrammatical.

Example 2:
1. だれが学生？ - Who is the student?
2. トムが学生だ。- Tom is the student.

In Example 2, the speaker is trying to identify which one (of several candidates) is the student. This is in contrast to the following sentence:

Example 3:
1. 学生はだれ？

In Example 3, the speaker is simply asking a trait about the student (in this case, who are they), and is not trying to identify them.

At first glance,「は」and「が」may seem very similar because there is no direct translation into English. However, Japanese is a language where context is very important, and the difference between the two particles is mainly a contextual one. Take the following sentences for example.

Example 4:
1. トムが学生だ。- Tom is the one who is a student.
2. トムは学生だ。- As for Tom, he am a student.

Sentence 1. is identifying「トム」as the one (among several candidates) who is a student. Sentence 2., on the other hand, is simply describing a trait about「トム」, that he is a student.

「が」can always be thought of as answering an implied question. Take the following sentences for example.

Example 5:
1. どこが猫だか。- Where is the cat?
2. 部屋に猫がだ。- The cat is in the room.

Sentence 2., when alone, would imply the first question, as「が」is used. However, the sentence「部屋に猫はだ。」would simply be describing a trait of the cat (in this case, where it is.)

Go to [Vocab](../v/1-2.md) and [Exercises](../e/1-2.md)

[<= Previous](./1-1.md) **1.2** [Next =>](./1-3.md)
